Previously on
The Borgias...
ALEXANDER:
Now is the time of reckoning.
The vultures are
circling our family.
Our Rome.
We must remove him from
the chair of St. Peter's-
and from this world.
Vengeance is mine,
saieth the Lord.
Ah, vengeance will be ours.
[♪]
CATHERINA:
No!
ALEXANDER:
Catherina Sforza.
If she does not
kiss the papal ring,
we will drag her in chains
through the streets of Rome!
You would have me kneel to him?
Bow?
I only kneel
when it suits me.
CESARE: Catherina Sforza
shared her bed with me.
Did she beg to be
friends with us?
CESARE:
She remains an enemy.
Now we're in need
of another alliance!
I will not marry.
It is a daughter's duty to
marry her father's choice!
JUAN:
Surrender to my forces!
Journey to Rome!
I will never bend my knee
to the whore master of Rome.
Fire!
We are under attack!
ALEXANDER: What should have
been a glorious victory
is an ignominious defeat.
CESARE: Father, we must
discuss our brother.
He is hurtling towards ruin.
He will drag this
whole family with him.
Sleep well.
[screaming]
DELLA ROVERE: The pope is
surrounded by a ring of steel.
I propose we use the weapon
the Borgia family uses -
Canterella.
ANTONELLO: I would gladly
die to rid the world
of the Borgia pope.
LUCREZIA: The thought
of marriage turns my stomach.
The warm touch of a lover
might ease the pain.
We grow weary of this game.
It is no game.
You are marrying for
all of us, Lucrezia!
For family!
LUCREZIA:
Who are you?
I'm Prince
Alfonso d'Aragona,
suitor to the
Lady Lucrezia.
Yes, I will marry him.
He has all the sweetness
of an apple on the tree.
JUAN: You want to inhabit
my shoes, carry my sword.
You must resign
yourself, Cesare.
One day you'll realize
that everything I've done
has been for your own good.
Leave my baby!
[baby crying]
Juan, leave my
baby alone!
I will not have this
family torn apart!
Help him through
his dark night.
Have you come to beg
forgiveness for your insult?
You're already forgiven.
[gasping in pain]
We're Borgias.
We never forgive.
[gasping in pain]
ALEXANDER: Your brother
murdered in cold blood.
Who would do such a thing?
Many people, Father.
I have wished him
dead a thousand times.
ALEXANDER:
Find his murderer.
Scour all Italy!
There will be no need of that.
Do you know who did this?
CESARE: I have
taken upon my head
the act that none other
would dare commit.
If I cannot have
your affection,
can you at least grant
me your forgiveness?
ALEXANDER:
We realize now
that we have brought
this upon ourselves.
[choking]
FATHER!
HELP!
[♪]
♪ The Borgias 3x01 ♪
The Face of Death
Original Air Date on April 14, 2013
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
[♪]
PHYSICIAN:
Come with me! Hurry!
[door banging open]
[panting]
CESARE:
Help!
Father!
MAN:
Summon the physician!
Is he dead?
[loud clatter]
[♪]
[distant bells tolling]
Stand back!
[panting]
GUARD:
Make way, I say!
MAN:
Physician, hurry!
Make way!
Move!
Move aside!
CAPTAIN:
Seal the city!
Close the gates!
[gates slamming]
Make way!
Make way, make way.
Cantarella.
What can you do?
PHYSICIAN:
Nothing.
His soul is already
departing this world.
His soul does not depart
until I give it leave!
But-there is nothing-there
is no remedy, no antidote-
there is nothing to
cure such a case.
LUCREZIA:
No, there is.
There is something -
charcoal.
But I have only read of it,
never seen it done.
I need water, water.
Open his mouth.
[indistinct chatter]
Get this down.
Come on!
Help me!
Force it in until
he can bear no more.
And if he vomits, force more.
You understand me?
But, this is witchcraft.
This is physick!
Get to it!
CESARE: Do what she says.
Every detail.
And, if his soul departs,
I shall ensure it
does not do so alone.
PHYSICIAN:
Yes, Eminence.
Hand me water.
LUCREZIA: Push this
down his throat!
CAPTAIN: Get these
people out of here.
I want this room clear.
CARDINAL:
Ave Maria.
Gratia plena.
Dominus tecum...
LUCREZIA:
Get it down!
...benedictus fructus
ventris tui, Iesus.
ALPHONSO:
Will he live?
CARDINAL: Pater noster, qui
es in caelis, sanctificetur -
I found this
in the boy's cell.
A Dominican salter
in a Franciscan cell?
CARDINAL SFORZA:
I have closed the city.
I must leave.
Do what you can.
Hah!
Yah!
LUCREZIA:
Keep going.
Come on.
The last words
I spoke to him...
Shh...
They tore him apart.
Shh!
It's not yet too late.
[banging on door]
Who's there, Brother?
[gasps in pain]
MONK: Stop!
This is the house of God.
And God is angry.
[grunting]
Ah!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[pained grunts]
CESARE:
Whose room is this?
MONK:
Cardinal Della Rovere's.
[gasps]
Where is he?
Where is Della Rovere?
My lord.
Cantarella.
You, where he is?
Tell me where you have
hidden Della Rovere-
or your life is forfeit.
[whimpering]
Show me - or I will
gut you like a fish.
You threaten me?
We are men of God!
Men of God who have conspired
to murder my father.
Your father.
CESARE: Did you really think
I would not find you out?
Look at me.
[shouts]
Look at me!
Show me.
Show him.
Get up!
[breathing heavily]
[women quietly weeping]
There is nothing
more I know to do.
Well, we cannot
leave him here.
Come.
We've lost him.
Ah!
Ahh!
CARDINAL COLONNA: [whispering]
It seems our prayers
may not be answered.
CARDINAL SFORZA: [whispering]
That would depend
on the nature
of your prayers.
COLONNA: [whispering]
God forbid he should die.
But should he die...
There will
be opportunity.
There will be mayhem.
CARDINAL DE LUCA:
God wants an Italian.
The Holy Spirit
wants a Roman.
We should decide
amongst ourselves.
Find the safest pair
of Italian hands
and bless the martyr who
brought about this outcome.
COLONNA:
A Roman.
One of the great
Italian families.
CARDINAL VERSUCCI:
Colonna, De Luca,
Piccolimini,
Sforza, Versucci...
Orsini.
Yes.
[chuckles]
[♪]
He could be anywhere.
His arm, lift his arm.
[♪]
[murmuring]
DELUCA:
Of course.
ORSINI: I would need to know
where you consider me.
DELLA ROVERE:
Cardinal Orsini.
Cardinal DeLuca.
Cardinal Colonna.
Cardinal Sforza.
My brothers; I came
as soon as I heard.
As soon as you heard.
Of the pope's death.
Cardinal Della Rovere,
your information somewhat
pre-empts the matter.
He lives?
PRIEST: In nomine Patri et Filii
et Spiritus Sancti, amen.
PRIEST:
Amen.
PHYSICIAN: The life has
not left him yet, Eminence.
[whispering continues]
[♪]
Cesare!
You!
Your blade! Cesare!
Put up your blade!
CARDINALS:
No, no, no!
Cesare!
The least disturbance
may tip the balance.
[relieved sigh]
Cesare-please!
Now think!
Think of what?
Of what happens next.
Of what becomes of us
if he dies.
You, me, Lucrezia.
Do you think we've
made friends here?
Do you think we can
turn to our allies?
Where are these
allies, Cesare?
Who are our friends?
I'm not pope.
Neither are you.
Without him,
what becomes of us?
Will he die?
It hangs in
the balance.
Then we must wait to see
which way the balance falls.
Meanwhile, look to me
for your safety.
PICCOLOMINI: We should
align ourselves now
to reap what we can.
VERSUCCI:
There's nothing else.
ORSINI:
There are the Borgia estates.
PICCOLOMINI:
Are we agreed?
An Italian then?
ORSINI:
And a Roman.
VERSUCCI:
Della Rovere is both.
He has been long
in the wilderness.
ORSINI:
For far too long.
How long will
any of the Borgias
survive once
he's gone?
I want the treasury.
And I want land.
SFORZA:
In nomini Patri...
[praying]
[baby crying]
Sh, sh, sh.
[bell tolling]
[crying continues]
He won't sleep.
Take him back to the villa.
Put him in his bed there.
We'll join you as soon as we
know his grandfather's fate.
Thank you.
[crying continues]
Shh...
Be safe.
Yes, my lady.
You should go too.
It's not safe here.
If it's not safe for me,
how can it be safe for you?
It's not.
But I am a Borgia,
and my place is here.
ALFONSO
I'm to be your husband -
LUCREZIA:
Yes, but you are not yet.
Go back to your villa and...
When this is over -
one way or the other -
I will send for you,
never fear.
I would protect you,
you know.
The time may come.
But not now.
[sighs]
VANOZZA:
The Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou
amongst women,
and blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, Mother of God,
Pray for us sinners...
[whispering prayers]
[♪]
[soldiers shouting]
CAPTAIN:
Take position!
SOLDIER:
In place!
CAPTAIN:
Papal guard!
Cardinal...
Tell me-
um...
Where are the lines
of allegiance?
Hmm?
[scoffs]
Please...
Do not tell me that my
father did not have you
with your ear pressed
to the wall on such matters.
I wish to know.
Which cardinals owe favours
to which other cardinals?
Who is in whose pocket?
Who seeks the papacy?
And who merely
wishes an easy life?
You know all this,
do you not?
Yes, your father
encouraged me to, uh...
...to know all of this.
And?
I have a list in
my private apartments.
Names and notes.
CESARE:
Get it.
[door closing]
[floorboard creaking]
Did my cousin
Catherina send you?
You are not welcome here.
This is a dagger's tip
upon which all events turn,
Cardinal.
We are at the fork
in the road.
Rome must not be allowed
to take the wrong path here.
Did you do this?
No.
It took us by surprise.
But it was our intention,
at the proper moment.
Preparations have been
made for some time now,
certain...
matters arranged.
All this has done
is move things along
a little faster than
we'd anticipated.
You have always known this
day would come, Ascanio.
All that has
changed is that now
I require your
assistance in the matter.
By what right dare you
require anything of me?
By right of blood.
Of family.
Of kinsmen.
And by right of what
is good for Rome.
And if I refuse?
You should not refuse.
If he dies -
When he dies.
What comes after?
Are you here to dangle the
Papacy of Rome in front of me
like a carrot in front
of a hungry mule?
[snickers]
Are you saying you would
refuse, if it were offered?
Understand me clearly.
Your cousin Catherina will
not be denied this chance.
He will die.
[quietly]
As will they all die.
All?
The whole brood of
bastards die tonight.
So you should
give thought
to where you want
to be come the dawn.
One step closer to
the throne of Rome,
or confronting a pope
whose family just died
at Sforza hands.
Come home, Ascanio.
You have been
too long away.
[Cardinals murmuring]
DELLA ROVERE: [whispering]
It would be good
if we could
count on your support.
Of course.
Thank you.
You believe that one of you
can beat him.
You can't.
Sforza knows too well your
strengths and weaknesses,
your little corridor politics.
He'll set you
against one another,
let you vie for position,
and then take down the winner
without breaking a sweat.
I can beat him -
if you lend
your strength to mine.
None of you wants to
be pope in any case.
What you want is power.
And that I will give you,
all that you
could eat of it.
[Alexander gasps]
Your Holiness!
CESARE: Water!
Dottore, water, now!
Yes, my lord!
Oh!
Your Holiness!
[vomiting]
[coughing]
[murmuring]
[gasping]
[sigh]
CARDINALS: Gloria Patri,
et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto.
Sicut erat in principio,
et nunc, et semper,
et in saecula
saeculorum.
Amen.
[moaning hoarsely]
CARDINALS: Gloria Patri,
et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto.
[♪]
Your place is in
the Vatican, Cardinal.
Rodrigo.
[sighs]
CESARE:
You can leave us.
I...
Shh...
Don't try to speak.
Your throat will be
torn from the charcoal.
It's safe.
[gasps]
It's safe,
it's safe.
[sigh]
I saw the face of death.
CESARE: Well,
you're not dead, Father.
You live.
For how long?
A day and a night.
By who?
Della Rovere.
The Dominicans were hiding
him right here in Rome.
But we have him
and I will know
how many others,
their names,
their families...
He will tell everything
before I'm done with him,
and then he will
beg for death.
They settled like
crows around me...
I heard them...
...praying
for my death.
[mutters]
I heard them.
They're gone now.
I have disappointed them.
How come I did not die?
You owe your life
to Lucrezia.
And the grace of God.
Yes, and that.
No, not God.
Ah...
[sighs]
Where is he?
Who, Father?
Juan.
Where is Juan?
[sighs]
[whimpers]
Juan.
[sighs]
Look at me.
You have us.
We are here.
ALEXANDER:
One day and a night.
So much has changed.
[door creaking open]
Ah!
[door slamming shut]
[weeping]
[indistinct conversations]
[birds chirping;
water flowing]
[indistinct conversations]
[vendors calling out]
[indistinct
conversations throughout]
Well?
What of my family?
Make way!
They're well, so far.
And whether they remain so
depends on your answer.
There are five guards
inside the villa.
I don't know how many outside.
Where placed?
The main doors.
Two in the garden.
The others move around,
upstairs mostly.
I'm not sure of more.
That's good enough.
And the family?
They will return when
the pope is well.
Or when he dies.
The window in the washing
room leads outside?
When the family returns,
leave the window
unlatched and walk away.
But you must promise me -
Please, spare the child.
He has done nothing.
Of course.
You have my word.
No harm to the child.
Let's go.
[roosters squawking]
[men cheering, laughing]
[indistinct shouts]
MAN:
Okay, go ahead!
Yeah, yeah, yeah!
That's it! Go!
Hit him!
Peck his eyes out!
Yeah! Get him!
Yeah, that's it!
Call it off.
What's happened?
He's alive!
[squawking]
You're certain?
When I left he was
calling for water.
By now he's probably
fucking some servant girl
with a wine jug in one hand
and a swan's leg in the other.
It's over.
Don't be a fool.
Are you deaf?
He's alive.
So make him die.
The others die
tonight in any case.
I've already given the word.
Dear God.
There's no backing
down now.
Within the month Rome
will have a new pope.
Better for all that it is a
man of moderation and wisdom
such as yourself.
You're insane.
[scoffs]
He trusts you.
Toledo steel.
It's one of a pair.
What have you done
with the other?
I told you, preparations
had been made.
In the pope's chamber.
Concealed in the crucifix
upon his offering table.
[whispers]
You know what to do.
[door creaking open]
My father lives.
You've failed.
Ah...
What say you to that?
Today he lives.
One day he will not.
And on that day,
where will you be?
You do know what
awaits you, hmm?
What we did
to Savonarola
will seem like
the merest whimsy
compared to what
I will inflict on you.
Wait...
What I said, I meant.
Give thought to it.
Where will you be
when he's gone?
They will tear you
down like jackals.
I can help you.
I have no need of your help.
I can pave the way.
Every word from
your lips is a lie.
I'm beaten.
I have failed.
I know that.
What use am I
to you dead?
[snickers]
I do not mean for
you to be dead.
Not for a long, long time.
[knocks on door]
[sighs]
I saw the face of death.
I know.
You said.
And I was afraid.
I am so afraid.
Don't be.
It would take more
than cantarella
to fell an ox like you.
No, you don't understand.
I didn't see
the face of God.
He was not there.
Why did He not
show Himself to me?
But I heard the others.
I heard them.
Colonna.
Versucci.
DeLuca,
Della Rovere.
How they prayed
for my death,
and swore to
see me buried
and never again a Spaniard
on the papal throne.
Carrion crows pecking away.
And where was God
to protect me?
You must rest.
Now close your eyes
and sleep.
[whispers]
He sleeps?
He frets,
as if in fever.
You've done
such work today.
Take mother home.
Stay with her.
Take some sleep
for tomorrow.
I'll stay with him.
Look after him.
[groans]
I heard that voice.
In the room, before
the poison took hold
and darkness
dragged me down.
I heard you
call out to me.
"Father, Father."
And you held me
in your hands.
Come here.
Come.
There was something
before the darkness.
Something you said,
something you told me...
...that the world
must never know.
Your brother's murder
was a terrible crime,
and every crime must be
seen to have a punishment.
So we must find the person
who is to be punished.
You understand?
And I?
You have to find
your own peace.
[sigh]
[indistinct
conversations throughout]
[♪]
CAPTAIN:
Papal guard!
Forward!
ORSINI: I will speak
with the prisoner.
You are relieved.
GUARDS: Yes, Your Eminence.
What is this?
This is your freedom.
Don't forget who put
it in your hands.
But why?
Others may succeed where you have not.
[screaming, gasping]
And then, Rome will
have need of you.
Guard.
I will not forget this.
Go with them.
They will show you the way.
God be with you.
And with you.
[guard stomps]
SFORZA:
Is this necessary?
My Lord Cesare's
orders.
No...
[shouts]
Guards!
[unlatching window]
Della Rovere!
Find him!
Follow me!
Yes, my lord!
Search everywhere!
[steel scrapes scabbard]
[baby crying]
Oh!
You scared me.
What is it?
Do you not hear
the child crying?
[gasps]
Look at me.
I said, look at me.
I had no choice.
Hm.
You had every choice.
[struggling]
[pebble hitting floor]
[stifled shout]
[panting]
Della Rovere is free.
What?
There are dead men
strewn through
my father's house
and Della Rovere is free.
All is well here?
No...
No, all is not
well here.
Just tell me.
There is a plot
to kill your family.
It is my cousin Catherina
Sforza's doing.
When?
Tonight.
Now.
Get in there!
Do not leave
his side.
Do not let anyone
else in.
[door closes]
[♪]
[grunting]
[baby quietly crying]
Fuck!
[grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[grunts]
[loud clatter]
[loud scream]
[groan]
CESARE:
Where are they?
Your sister's bedroom.
[door rattles]
[relieved sigh]
[baby cries]
Shh...
CESARE:
Thank God.
Shhh...
[breathing heavily]
[baby cries]
Shh...
[♪]
They were warned.
Ascanio betrayed us.
[door closes]
[slams shut]
Then we will have
to find another way.
That will be difficult.
They will be watching
for assassination.
No.
No more assassination.
What then?
Those they have
dispossessed...
made enemies of...
Those upon whom
they have trodden in
their ascent to power...
Let us gather them to us.
The cardinals?
No.
If our own cousin fails us,
why look to the rest
of the Consistory?
Go to their families.
The young bloods,
blades for hire.
Second sons.
Roberto and Paolo Orsini.
Vitelezzo Vitelli.
Prospero Colonna.
Gian Paolo Baglioni.
The families of Bologna,
Umbria, Siena.
An alliance.
You think they would fall in?
For the most part
they hate each other.
They hate the Borgias more.
[snickers]
Bring them to us.
Marshal them under
our banner.
And then let us
see where we stand.
What's this?
This is murder.
MAN: Taken out of the
Borgia palace, so we heard.
Run through and
through with swords.
Seems there's
treason afoot.
Best you keep
your eyes open.
[choir singing throughout]
Were you in time?
Yes.
[sighs]
I thank God for it.
Two men were
sent in the night
to wipe my family from
the face of the earth
and came within a blade's
breadth of doing so.
The maid's family is dead.
The maid too, I'm sure,
would have been disposed of
had we not
finished her first.
There is someone
thinking far ahead,
tying up loose ends.
Who?
[choir finishes singing]
PRIEST:
Venite exultamus Domino...
[priest continues]
His name is Rufio.
He is a man of my cousin
Catherina Sforza's household.
I have known him
since he was a boy.
He's the most deadly,
the most lethal -
We will find him.
No, no, you will not.
He's not a mere assassin.
He has made himself a
student of the art of death.
You will not find him
unless he wishes it.
And so he
found you.
He came to me and told me
to choose my allegiance.
And you chose Rome.
Yes, of course I chose Rome!
What do you take me for?
A traitor?
Why should I be
surprised at one more...
...when there are so many?
Where is Della Rovere?
Gone.
Who knows where.
He had friends.
Friends within
the Vatican.
I knew nothing
of this.
[scoffs]
I swear it.
I knew nothing
before tonight.
You did well enough.
[birds cawing and chirping]
[gasps]
[bell tolling]
They came for our family?
CESARE: [sighs]
It has passed.
Everyone is well.
Who was it?
Della Rovere?
Perhaps.
[scoffs]
Perhaps!
More likely,
this past night,
your poisoning
has rattled the grass
and all the snakes
in Rome have slid forth.
Della Rovere may not
be the worst of it.
Well, then who?
Who did it?
Catherina Sforza.
That bitch.
[sighs]
And you knew nothing of
this until it was upon us?
Who is to protect
this family,
if not you?
Rodrigo!
You are truly safe!
And little Giovanni?
He's safe.
I told you, Father.
We're all safe.
[♪]
VANOZZA:
This night is done,
it is daylight.
Open your eyes.
We're not safe.
ALEXANDER:
No.
We are at war.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
[♪]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org